CLASS SETS
Post any feedback on class sets in the thread: Feedback: Midnight Season 2 Class Sets.
DEATH KNIGHT
Blood
2-Set Bonus: Your attack speed is increased by 15%, and Crimson Scourge's chance to occur is increased by an additional 5%.
4-Set Bonus: Crimson Scourge increases the damage of your next Death and Decay by 100%, and grants 5% critical strike chance for 8 seconds when consumed.
Frost
2-Set Bonus: Each time Remorseless Winter damages at least 1 enemy, gain Freezing Tempest which grants 2% attack speed and 4% increased Icy Death Torrent damage for 5 sec, stacking.
4-Set Bonus: Remorseless Winter deals damage 25% more frequently, and Freezing Tempest lasts 5 seconds longer.
Unholy
2-Set Bonus: Your Magus of the Dead and Lord of the Dead cast a more powerful Necrotic Bolt instead of Frostbolt, and Withering Grasp instead of Shadow Bolt.
4-Set Bonus: Necrotic Bolt's damage is increased by 130%, and Withering Grasp's damage is increased by 130%, against enemies below 35% health.
DEMON HUNTER
Devourer
2-Set Bonus: Harvesting 4 or more Soul Fragments with Reap has a 20% chance to cause your next Consume to be instant cast and explode in a Soulburst, dealing Cosmic damage to nearby enemies.
4-Set Bonus: Soulburst generates 8 Soul Fragments and grants Moment of Craving. Reap deals 20% increased damage.
Havoc
2-Set Bonus: Blade Dance, Chaos Strike, and Essence Break deal 12% increased damage.
4-Set Bonus: Essence Break now applies and benefits from the effects of Cycle of Hatred, has 25% increased initial strike damage, and has 2 seconds of increased duration.
Vengeance
2-Set Bonus: Sigil of Flame's damage over time is increased by 50%. Soul Cleave increases the duration of Sigil of Flame on your primary target by 2 seconds.
4-Set Bonus: Immolation Aura and Sigil of Spite deal 100% increased damage against targets affected by your Sigil of Flame.
DRUID
Balance
2-Set Bonus: Starsurge damage increased by 20%. Starfall also deals Astral damage instantly to all valid enemies in range when cast.
4-Set Bonus: Your damage is increased by 10% while in any Eclipse. This bonus wanes to 2% at the midpoint of the Eclipse, then waxes back to 10% at the end.
Feral
2-Set Bonus: When Berserk or Incarnation ends, you deal 10% increased damage for 1 second for each combo point spent during Berserk or Incarnation.
4-Set Bonus: Berserk and Incarnation last 10 seconds longer.
Guardian
2-Set Bonus: Thrash has a 20% chance to make your next Mangle deal 100% increased damage.
4-Set Bonus: Thrash calls up 3 thorns, each impaling a target for Nature damage and dealing additional Nature damage to up to 5 nearby enemies, and extends the duration of Berserk by 0.5 seconds, up to 5 seconds.
Restoration
2-Set Bonus: Rejuvenation has a 15% chance and Nature's Swiftness has a 100% chance to grant Genesis, causing all your heal over time effects to heal for 25% more for 8 seconds. Multiple applications may overlap.
4-Set Bonus: Genesis duration is increased by 4 seconds, and gaining Genesis grants Clearcasting.
EVOKER
Augmentation
2-Set Bonus: Upheaval's cooldown is reduced by 10 seconds.
4-Set Bonus: Upheaval magnifies your Fate Mirror effects for 8 seconds, increasing the amount of damage echoed to 45%.
Devastation
2-Set Bonus: Shattering Star's damage is increased by 150%, and it always casts as if you had reached maximum empower level.
4-Set Bonus: Causality reduces the remaining cooldown of your empower spells by an additional 0.1 seconds each time the effect occurs. Eternity Surge deals 10% increased damage.
Preservation
2-Set Bonus: Consuming Essence Burst sends forth a Living Flame at your target at 150% effectiveness, or at a nearby injured target if your primary target is at full health.
4-Set Bonus: Green spells restore 5% more health, and Verdant Embrace has a 100% chance to grant Essence Burst.
HUNTER
Beast Mastery
2-Set Bonus: Barbed Shot causes your pets to stomp 1 additional time at 50% effectiveness.
4-Set Bonus: Stomp causes your next Cobra Shot to either benefit from Beast Cleave at 20% effectiveness, or strike your primary target for 30% additional damage, stacking up to 4 times.
Marksmanship
2-Set Bonus: Explosive Shot lasts 1 second longer and deals 20% increased damage.
4-Set Bonus: Aimed Shot and Rapid Fire damage increased by 5%. Each time Explosive Shot causes a burst of damage, the cooldown of Aimed Shot and Rapid Fire is reduced by 0.5 seconds.
Survival
2-Set Bonus: Raptor Strike damage increased by 15%.
4-Set Bonus: Mongoose Fury also increases the damage of Wildfire Bomb by 10%.
MAGE
Arcane
2-Set Bonus: Arcane Missiles fires 1 additional missile and deals 20% increased damage.
4-Set Bonus: Each wave of Arcane Missiles increases the damage of your next Arcane Blast, Arcane Pulse, or Prismatic Bolt by 5%, up to 40%.
Fire
2-Set Bonus: Pyroclasm causes Flamestrike and Pyroblast to always critically strike.
4-Set Bonus: Pyroclasm reduces the cast time of Flamestrike and Pyroblast by 20% and its damage bonus is increased by 20%.
Frost
2-Set Bonus: Each stack of Freezing Shattered has a 5% chance to generate an Icicle. Glacial Spike damage increased by 25%.
4-Set Bonus: Consuming Glacial Spike has a small chance to grant Glacial Spike. Shatter damage increased by 15%.
MONK
Brewmaster
2-Set Bonus: Breath of Fire ignites your next Keg Smash, causing it to explode on contact, dealing additional Flamestrike damage to its primary target and reduced damage to additional targets.
4-Set Bonus: Ignited Keg Smashes cause enemies struck to take 8% increased damage from your Physical abilities, and leave a patch of flames on the ground, dealing Fire damage each second for 5 seconds.
Mistweaver
2-Set Bonus: Rising Sun Kick deals 30% increased damage and Rushing Wind Kick's healing is increased by 100%.
4-Set Bonus: Rising Sun Kick and Rushing Wind Kick have a chance to cause their next cast to ignore their cooldown and have their mana cost reduced by 100%.
Windwalker
2-Set Bonus: Fists of Fury strikes an additional time at the start of its channel at 50% effectiveness.
4-Set Bonus: Fists of Fury increases the damage of your next Rising Sun Kick by 10% or Spinning Crane Kick by 20% each time it strikes, stacking up to 6 times.
PALADIN
Holy
2-Set Bonus: Infusion of Light increases the healing of Flash of Light by an additional 75% and the absorb from Greater Judgment by an additional 75%.
4-Set Bonus: Judgment now has a 20% chance to grant Infusion of Light. Holy Light now has a 50% chance to grant Infusion of Light.
Protection
2-Set Bonus: Consecration is 30% larger and enemies within your Consecration are illuminated, increasing the chance for your abilities to critically strike them by 5%.
4-Set Bonus: Enemies struck by Judgment or Crusader Strike take 20% additional Holy damage. If they are struck by a critical strike, the additional damage is increased by 200%.
Retribution
2-Set Bonus: Divine Purpose has an additional 10% chance to activate and consuming it grants Divine Power, increasing Holy damage done by 10% for 12 seconds.
4-Set Bonus: Consuming Divine Purpose with Divine Storm causes your next Final Verdict to be free and unleash Divine Arbiter at its target, dealing Holy damage and Holy damage to enemies within 8 yards.
PRIEST
Discipline
2-Set Bonus: Penance damage and healing increased by 20%. Casting Penance reduces the cooldown of Mind Blast by 2 seconds.
4-Set Bonus: After casting Mind Blast, your next Power Word: Shield or Void Shield absorbs 25% more damage.
Holy
2-Set Bonus: Each target affected by your Renew increases your Haste by 2%, up to 6%.
4-Set Bonus: Renew healing increased by 10%. Light's Resurgence now has a 100% chance to leave a Renew on the first target Prayer of Mending heals.
Shadow
Developers' notes: The Shadow Priest set will be available PTR week 2.
2-Set Bonus: Tentacle Slam's cooldown is reduced by 3 seconds and its damage is increased by 100%.
4-Set Bonus: After casting Tentacle Slam, your next Vampiric Touch is instant, generates 4 additional Insanity, and conjures Shadowy Apparitions that deal 200% of normal damage.
ROGUE
Assassination
2-Set Bonus: Envenom damage increased by 10% and it increases your damage dealt by 3%.
4-Set Bonus: Deadly Poison increases your bleed damage on the target by 10%. Auto-attacks against targets with your Amplifying Poison deal 2% increased damage per stack. Wound Poison hits a second time.
Outlaw
2-Set Bonus: Dispatch damage increased by 15%.
4-Set Bonus: Sinister Strike and Ambush have a 12% chance to cause your next Dispatch to be free and deal damage as if you spent the maximum combo points.
Subtlety
2-Set Bonus: Backstab costs 10 less Energy and deals 100% increased damage. Shuriken Storm costs 5 less Energy and deals 60% increased damage.
4-Set Bonus: Lingering Darkness now also benefits Eviscerate and Black Powder at 100% effectiveness.
SHAMAN
Elemental
2-Set Bonus: Earth Shock, Elemental Blast, and Earthquake damage increased by 25%.
4-Set Bonus: When Stormkeeper or Ascendance fade, your next 2 Lightning Bolts, Chain Lightnings, or Lava Bursts deal 25% increased damage and cause your next Earthquake, Earth Shock, or Elemental Blast to cost 100% less Maelstrom.
Enhancement
2-Set Bonus: Voltaic Blaze causes your primary target to erupt in a Fire Nova every 2 seconds for 6 seconds. Fire Nova damage is increased by 200% if it only strikes a single target.
4-Set Bonus: Fire Nova reduces the cooldown of Crash Lightning by 2 seconds and increases the damage of your next Crash Lightning by 8%, stacking up to 5 times.
Restoration
2-Set Bonus: Healing Wave and Chain Heal have a chance to create a Healing Rain at the target's location for 10 seconds.
4-Set Bonus: Every 1 second, 1 ally inside of Healing Rain gains a watery shield that absorbs X damage for 10 seconds.
WARLOCK
Affliction
2-Set Bonus: You have a 20% chance to refund a Soul Shard after spending a Soul Shard.
4-Set Bonus: Each active Unstable Affliction increases your damage dealt by your spells and abilities by 2%, up to 6%. Seed of Corruption applies Unstable Affliction at 50% effectiveness to your target.
Demonology
2-Set Bonus: Wild Imp damage increased by 10%. Implosion damage increased by 20%.
4-Set Bonus: When their energy depletes, Wild Imps have a 20% chance to fling themselves at their target and Implode at 150% effectiveness to their main target and 125% effectiveness to other targets.
Destruction
2-Set Bonus: Incinerate damage increased by 25% and Incinerate has a 10% increased chance to evoke an Echo of Sargeras.
4-Set Bonus: Targets damaged by Echo of Sargeras take 6% increased damage from Echo of Sargeras for 6 seconds.
WARRIOR
Arms
2-Set Bonus: Mortal Strike damage increased by 10% and when you Slam a target, Slam also deals damage to enemies within 8 yards of it. Deals reduced damage beyond 5 targets.
4-Set Bonus: Overpower damage increased by 15%. Mortal Strike and Overpower increase the damage of your next Slam by 10%, stacking up to 3 times.
Fury
2-Set Bonus: Raging Blow damage increased by 15% and during Recklessness, Raging Blow extends the Duration of Recklessness by 2 seconds, up to 6 seconds.
4-Set Bonus: Bloodthirst damage increased by 10% and during Recklessness, Bloodthirst increases the critical strike bonus of Recklessness by 5%, up to 10%.
Protection
2-Set Bonus: Free revenges deal 15% additional damage and cause your next Shield Slam to deal 20% additional damage.
4-Set Bonus: Ravager and your free Revenges cause all targets to bleed for X damage over 12 sec. Ravager's cooldown is reduced by 30 seconds.